# Kofler-Aural_Fallbeispiele
Archival of XSLT files related to 'Fallbeispiele' in the digital edition "Kofler Aural" (https://gams.uni-graz.at/context:kofleraural)
There are 11 'Fallbeispiele' presented online https://gams.uni-graz.at/archive/objects/context:kofleraural/methods/sdef:Context/get?mode=fallstudien.
There is one XSLT for each 'Fallbeispiel', each needed for transforming one of 11 corresponding RDF-files: https://gams.uni-graz.at/archive/objects/o:kofleraural.fallbeispiel1/datastreams/ONTOLOGY/content (change number in link from 1 to 11 to access each RDF)

# Description of the Digital Edition 'Kofler Aural'
The primary goal of this digital genetic edition is to establish the analysis of auditory phenomena as an integral part of research on writing processes. Kofler aural makes the path of sound and listening traces into literature traceable. The work of the Austrian writer Werner Kofler—one of the great satirists of Austrian literature—is particularly well suited for analyzing the integration of tones, noises, and sounds into literary production. In the prose work Am Schreibtisch, Kofler narrates through overlapping voices, with each section staging a new voice. His writing follows a dialogical principle in which the spoken word—even in monologues—always reverberates.
The edition presents, in a text-image synoptic view, all preserved textual witnesses, which are transcribed and encoded in TEI-XML format. Through eleven case studies (text passages), the auditory traces of voices, noises, and music can be followed through the layers of the archival material—from the notes to the print version. To make transparent how intensively and across what thematic range Kofler worked on the linguistic realization of hearing and speaking even in his earliest drafts, 54 individual examples (“Categorization / Listening Traces”) are presented, divided into five categories and juxtaposed with the final version of the fair copy.
The titular concept of aurality is based on the idea of writing as a mode of perception production. Aurality addresses the “inner ear,” subvocalization, and implies a predisposition toward (non-acoustic) perceptions or imaginations of sound within the writing process. Included in this are the media of hearing, vocality, the proximity to music and composition, and the implicit volume controls that accompany writing. For listening—both in writing and reading—also includes silence. The final (crossed-out) sentence of the draft typescript of Am Schreibtisch shows how deeply Kofler thinks from the auditory perspective: 'a[nd] it grows quiet within me.'

# Description of "Fallbeispiele"
The sense of hearing — auditory perception — plays a significant role in various stages of the creation of Werner Koflers 'Am Schreibtisch'. Representing this insight from a text-genetic perspective is the central goal of the case studies. The result is a genetic edition of selected passages that takes into account all relevant textual witnesses from the available drafts in the author’s estate.
Traces of sound — voices, noises, and music — were tracked through the layers of archival materials. In some cases, audible moments can already be identified as listening experiences in the notes and followed through to the fair copy (Example 1: In the Dining Car / Music). Other aural passages Kofler meticulously refined in the typescripts, honing them carefully for their sound (Example 2: In the Dining Car / Reverberation).
The selection of case studies reflects the range of auditory and aural phenomena in 'Am Schreibtisch' and illustrates the close interconnection between writing and listening in Kofler’s writing process. It extends from musical quotations to interruptions of speech, from quick notes capturing a listening experience to multiple revisions of a passage.
In the case studies, the different layers are visualized. For the notes and preparatory work, no specific order of genesis is suggested — that would be speculative. A genetic sequence only seems appropriate at the typescript stage. The presentation shows not only the changes from one sheet to another but also those within a single textual stage. In this way, the writing process — which never followed a linear path — can be traced on the micro level, for instance within individual revisions or handwritten additions.


